To be part of this Island is to fight in it. The buildings crumble at their very foundations,  and the streets are filled with craters, rubble, and skeletons. The darkness is filled only by the shrieks of night terrors, and the days are filled with an endless war. Humanities reign has fallen, its flag collapsing under the weight of the world it left behind. No longer able to continue living on, their projects do it for them. Minds made of human hands roam the streets of human creation, unknowing of their past nor their future. Divided in two, this island has become a warzone of thoughts and ideas in the catalyst of creatures who know not their own origins.

On the south shore lies Gredo, a magical city of living Teddy Bears and Crystal Minds. Created by human hand to replicate human life, they carry on the battle of their creators with rage and violence and a distorted view of the world of old. Off the North Shore lies the result of the greatest technological minds humanity could find. A ruthless supercomputer known as The Hive now controls the last bastion of humanity's greatest technological feats, unleashing them upon its southern enemy. Locked into an eternal war they didn't start, these two powers are doomed to fight until the end time.

The Ancient Aetherium is a Table Top Role-Playing Game about exploration, adventure, and storytelling. This site acts as a reference guide for bringing this setting to life, giving rules to guide the telling of a collabrative story over a long period of time. While it does not need to be read in order, if you are new to the concept of a Table Top Role-Playing Game or new to the setting of the Ancient Aetherium, the site may be read in order by visiting each section from left to right from the black bar at the top of this page.

When playing The Ancient Aetherium, one player becomes the Ruin Master or RM for short. The Ruin Master is the one who comes up with and tells the story that the other players participate in. The rest of the players then take control of Player Characters, or PC for short. These are characters the players act out over the course of the adventure, working with the RM to tell the story. PCs come from the city of Gredo, taking the form of 4ft tall teddy bears in a caste based society, as these are the only creatures left with enough free will to be played.

The remaining parts of this "Home" section are for resources needed while exploring the system or playing the game.