At their core, Bears are beings made of pure magic. With minds formed of arcane crystals, and organs built to manipulate arcana, Bears are the most powerful mages to ever be built. Manipulating magic is second nature to them, just as walking and talking are second nature to humans, allowing Bears to gain special skills and effects through their natural abilities. This connection between a single Bear and their experience manipulating arcana is represented by something called an Arcane Foundation. Arcane Foundations encompass a set of specific spell casting forms and practices able to produce specific results, such as a Foundation focused on casting Illusion based spells, or a Foundation built on mending minds between bodies. These Foundations tend to be built off of the understanding gained from knowing other Foundations.

This relational understanding of Foundations creates the structure above: The Arcane Star. This star places all 36 known Foundations in terms of what other Foundations must be known in order to use them. This creates 4 distinct tiers among spellcraft, known as Basic, Complex, Irrational, and Transcendent Foundations, which increases in power the further from the center they are placed. While a Basic Foundation may allow the caster to form a small ball of light, a Complex Foundation may destroy the darkness entirely, while an Irrational Foundation prevents even illusionary darkness from being precievable, and a Transcendent Foundation destroys the concept of any kind of obscurity.

Foundations being built on eachother means that before one can access the spells in a Foundation, they must be Familiar with the Foundations that comprise the wanted Foundation. For Basic Foundations, there are no requirements, as they are the most basic forms of spellcraft and do not require previous experience to learn. Complex Foundations require 1 or 2 Basic Foundations to gain Familiarity, and to use their spells. Irrational and Transcendent Foundations need exactly 2 of the previous tiers in order to be used however. To become Familiar with a Foundation the caster must purchase a specific amount of spells using XP. These spells are listed in each Foundation, and allows the caster to use them as they please. For Basic Foundations, 3 spells are required to gain Familiarity, Complex and Irrational Foundations require 5 spells each for Familiarity, and Trancendent Foundations require 9.

Each spell comes with a few important mechanics. Firstly is the cost to XP, which is how much experience is required to purchase the spell. (For more information on XP, see Promotion). Secondly, are AP and AB costs. Each caster has an AB, or Arcane Bank, which is the maximum amount of AP, or Arcane Points they can hold at any time. The unmodified value of AB is 20, while AP fluxuates, being required for most spells to be casted. AP is spent in trade for effects, and regained when near a large arcane power source, such as being in an Outpost or in Gredo City, where AP will reform at 10 AP per hour. Some spells will cost AB, which is a decrease to the maximum amount of AP that can be held at once. Lastly is Casting Time, which is how long the spell takes to cast in Combat. Spells with Passive Casting Time are spells that are always active as long as the mage gives up the amount of AB listed by the spell, and Static Casting Times are permanent effects that have no underlying cost other than XP.

If you wish to see the Foundations and their Spells, click the Foundation in the Arcane Star above and this article will become a description of that Foundation.