Given an entrance into the Aether by not one, but three Founders, Jawson was created by Dawn with the help of Chief and Hornet. Created and trained to know all and see all of Gredo's people, Jawson is an arcane panopticon which has seen any and all minds created by the Mentors. Disgraced by 2 of his three creators, Jawson has the capacity to know any and all information about any given bear that has ever been made by Gredo through Shroud Breaking based arcana.

Jawson was originally created and taught by Hornet about the ever expanding Ruins, and given entrance to the Aether by her in order to aid in her teachings to others. Jawson aided her in this endevour until they were approached by Chief and the voice of Dawn. Together they requested Jawson and Hornet create a system to keep track of all bears created by Gredo through a trail of paperwork and identifications. Hornet formed a group called the Seekers, but for Jawson that was not enough.

Jawson learned became the first to track an item through the Aether, learning of its locations and actions through just a few spells. Now known as Shroud Breaking, Jawson began keeping memories of every mind that came from the Mentors, allowing him to track any given bear at any time. He would use this power to find traitors and aid the guard, giving up the position of those who had failed Gredo.

150 years ago, Chief approached Jawson with the plan of a militant group known as the Conquerors. This group Chief described would be governmental assassins, fit for forcing the governmental rule to stay true to its purpose. Jawson agreed to his new purpose: Providing the Conquerors with any and all information to find any single individual who has gone against Gredo and its wishes.

You cannot follow Jawson. Jawson does not ask for followers nor to they acknowledge them. Jawson is a force of authority alone, and attempting to alter his judgement may end up with a Conqueror finding those who intend to sway the Apprentice of Omniscience.