During any part of a journey, one will come across items they will need to deal with. Items like Weapons, Kits, Armor, and Husk Mods will be common to purchase, and items like an old oven, some old crystals, and an arcane generator will often catch the eye of local merchants. Dealing with interactions based around items, how hard they are to carry, how many you can carry, and how to determan worth are all tools provided by the Ancient Aetherium. Each item is assigned 3 values, known as their Artifact Value, Volume Value, and Toughness Value all of which are measured differently.

Artifact is a scale of rarity and functionality, which is used as a tool by merchants to judge the worth of various items in relation to others. Rarely is currency handled, instead individual items will be appraised for their value. This score is called Artifact, and is present in every item no matter how small. Artifact itself has had a few items serve as currency to represent it, such as Guilded Coins, and rifle bullets. These items typically have low Artifact Value, but stay stable with their worth from merchant to merchant.

Additionally, every item has a Volume that must be taken into account. Bears to not tend to tire from carrying many heavy things, but will still need somewhere to hold them, the difficulty of which is decided by Volume. Volume is only applied when items are meant to be stored in a bag, pocket, or other carrying tool. Volume is measured in 3 different scales. First is Cans, which is used for small hand held items, named after one of the first containers for these hand held items. Second is Pots, which take both hands to hold, can store 20 Cans of Volume, and earned their name as one of the first forms of carrying containers for merchants and their goods. Lastly is Barrels, which hold large items of 10 Pots in size, and get their name from Bartenders who would order large supplies of Brew making supplies.

Lastly is Toughness, which is a measure of the objects physical resistance. Toughness is most commonly seen when Husk Limbs are used in Combat, where Husk Limb Toughness is targeted. Husk Limbs tend to have multiple Durability, where as most items are a assumed to have one, with a Damage roll only needing to pass their Toughness to break them. This makes all items breakable, including walls and doors, which all have Toughness values for their physical resistance. Items that have lost their Durability may be repaired, but will be non-functional until that moment happens.