Making a character may seem daunting at first, but by following a specific list of steps, you're character can be created easily and quickly. Bears are comprised of 7 parts: Social Rung, Backgrounds, Skills and Traits, Deteriments, and lastly Perks, Arcana, and Gear. To get started, open the next page in a new tab and reference this list to create a character. This list assumes you have a copy of the character sheet already, found here.

Firstly, find a Social Rung for your character. They may be anything from an academic Royal to a rebellious Resident. This Social Rung will effect every social encounter this character has, so its a good idea to take a moment to pick the right Rung for you. Once a Rung has been decided on, write it down under the RUNG section of your character sheet.

Next is your characters Backgrounds. Backgrounds represent the experiences they've gained upon entering the real world beyond creation. Backgrounds tend to be a product of the characters enviroment and decide how easy it is to gain related Perks later on. Once 2 Backgrounds have been picked, note them in the 2 BACKGROUND sections of your character sheet.

Next comes the character's Skills and Traits, or what your character is capable of. During character creation the XP tables may be ignored, instead gain 5 Levels to spread among Traits. Any Trait may recieve any amount of these levels, such as giving the Handling Trait 1 Level and the Vitality Trait 3 Levels. Additionally, gain 30 Skill Levels to spread among Skills. Any Skill may recieve any amount of these levels. Once the characters Skills and Traits have been decided, note them down on your character sheet by shading in a box next to the name of the Skill or Trait for every level invested into it.

After that, you character must gain their 3 unique scores: Movement, Evade, and Resiliance. The effects of these scores are mostly seen during Combat, otherwise being general measures of a characters various extra skills. Movement is set to 5 without any modifiers, which are often gained or lost from Gear. Evade is your character's raw Evade Skill Level, with an extra 1/2 of that raw value being added for every point spent on Handling (rounded up). Resiliance is calculated the same as Evade, except gaining an additional 1/2 of its raw score for every point spent on Vitality (rounded up).

Next comes the character's Detriments, or their flaws. Upon character creation, your character must have 5 Points of Detriments, however more may be gained after character creation. Detriments are a measure of a characters short comings as a person, allowing for more unique and in-depth characters to be played in the Ancient Aetherium.

After Detriments comes Perks. Perks are unique abilities used to give your character special edges in speicfic situations, allowing you to specialize your character's role in the Ancient Aetherium. Upon character creation they may gain up to 2 Level 1 Perks that best match their role as a character. Additionally, upon character creation, your character will gain 4 spells. Explained in detail on the Arcana page, spells have a cost unlike perks, but are also unique abilities gained by your character over their experience in the Ancient Aetherium.

Upon picking your spells and perks, your character is complete! Depending on the conditions of the start of the game, your character may choose their own Gear, may have Gear given to them, or have a specific amount of Artifact ($A) given to them to spend on Gear. Gear is dependant on the choice of the RM, but it is suggested most of the time to start the game with 5000 $A.