Gredo's government is divided into two key sectors: The Royals, and the law upholding Nobles. Under the command of a Royal Office and working out of their Noble Villa, Nobles are tasked with enforcing a specific field of law. From the Noble Foremen who watch over the Working Rung, to the Noble Mentors who weave life into new minds, the jobs of the Nobility are endless. Found in the First Triad, Noble Villas act as gathering grounds and administrative compounds for Noblities, holding their command structure in their halls. Each Noble Villa works under its own rules and power structure as decided by its Royal Office, which oversees all Noble Villas under its specialization.

Unlike their Royal counterparts, Nobles need not care about public opinion. Nobles carry out their orders from their higher ups, making them often overlooked by lower Rungs. Despite this, Nobles hold a specific kind of power; compliance. Rungs under the Nobles tend to understand their position in the government well enough to not mess with a Noble on duty, no matter what that duty is. Nobles can often command lower Rungs for anything under their Villas purpose, and recieve a reluctant agreemant from them. This immunity to the public eye has no effect on the Noble Conquerors, however. Conquerors make it their Noble duty to hunt and remove corrupt Nobles and Royals from the ranks of Gredo's government to maintain the current power structure. Should a Noble step far enough out of line, their hunters may take notice. Conquerors themselves are not under any Royal Office, instead working directly under the Founders and the King themselves.

Nobles also find themselves at a transitional state of Gredo's power structure. Nobles must be promoted from a citizen into their position, but still remain a single promotion from the highest power in Gredo, adding a political game to the Nobility. Fighting for recognition and approval, some Nobles make it their work to impress their higher ups in the Villa and the Royal Office above them. Some, in their desperation, may even find themselves at the wrong end of the political game, being hunted for their positions. Others however may see the end of their plan, being promoted into Royalty.

Noble Villas can be found here.