Beyond the border of Gredo lies ruined cities, empty country sides, and an old world of untapped resources. Gredo decided to settle the ruins, creating large Outposts in strategic and resource rich locations, hoping to claim the idle wealth of knowledge and technology. These Outposts were vital to pushing Gredo's borders forwards in the past, providing footholds into the Ruins to expand their influence, but since the Taking of the Third Triad they've become  stagnent, instead acting as small spheres of Gredo's influence. Operated by the Residents, modern Outposts are far crys from their battle ready ancestors.

Outposts created in the hopes of pushing into a fourth sector have all but abandoned their cause. Split culturally, socially, and physically from Gredo, many Outposts dive into new discoveries instead of capitalising on old ones. Residents form the Outposts around a new isolated and divergant culture, going from university exploring or maintaining a valuble port to creating deadly racing gauntlets and exporting old world firearms. Residents will tend to flow with their Outposts social orders, spending their days going on dangerous runs through the Ruins, maintaining the Outpost, or fighting back enemies from reaching their home. The life of a Resident holds little time for rest, typically only finding time in the night for a quick drink and game at their Bar.

Despite their work for Gredo finding and exporting old world goods, Outposts often find themselves in struggle with the Royalty and Nobility, who don't appriciate the cultural divergance, and its effects on an Outposts output. This leads to many struggles between Residents and the Rungs above them. Royals may attempt to pass orders to squander or destroy what they deem to be destructive behavior that Outposts promptly ignore, with any attempt to send Nobles resulting in their corpses becoming new decorations. Residents have taken a large sour turn to every single Rung above them asside from the Military or Guilds, often treating other Rungs with inherit hostility when they enter an Outpost. Despite this, Residents still find friends in eachother, often working closely with nearby Outposts to survive in the face of cut resources or pushback from Gredo.

Outposts are can be found here.