Gredo's government is divided into two key sectors: The lawmaking Royals, and the Nobles. Working out of their Offices in the First Triad, Royals spend their day researching, fighting for, and enacting new governmental policy. Royals each come from a specialized office, where they are tasked with coming up to solutions for presenting at large law making assembelies held at Gredo's palace. During these assembelies they must convince the King to enact their policy against opposing offices to have their larger policies accepted and executed through the city and its Outposts.

In addition to law making assembelies, individual Offices and Royals have the ability to make temporary orders to the Nobilities under them, providing every Royal with a large amount of power. Using their power however, comes at a cost. Royals are very public figures, with large celebrations when a single Noble becomes promoted to a Royal position, forcing them into the public eye. Other Rungs watch Royals like vultures, making wrong moves potentially dangerous for Royals, such as enacting restrictive policy on a Resident's culture, then travelling through their Outpost. Beyond the public eye, Royals also find themselves under watch by the Kings secret police, also known as the Noble Conquerors. Should a Royal be deemed corrupt by the Conquerors, or be seen as out of line by the public eye, they may not live to see the next day.

This effect can go the other direction, however. Royals may find themselves wishing to fight for the Rung's below them, only to be removed from their Office, or deemed corrupt by Conquorors just the same. Royals find themselves playing a strange political game with the cultures they stomp through, and the Offices that employ them. Should this unique balancing Act skew too far in one direction Royals stand to lose everything from their position to their life. Despite this, they play the game anyway, guided by anything from greed to humility.

Royal Offices can be found here.