Across the mighty river splitting the island lies Gredo's large Working Rung. The Workers are responsible for producing and refining all of Gredo's raw materials during grueling 20 hour work days. Kept inline by the Noble Foremen, Workers spend their time chopping trees, weaving cloth, mining crystals, processing ore, treating lumber shipments, stone cutting, crystal processing, and many other labor intensive jobs until they collapse or get a break. Every single weapon, piece of lumber, cut stone brick, crystal, or piece of cloth comes directly from the Worker's Bastion.

Despite the important nature of their work, the majority of the Working Rung is found in the Worker's Bastion. Made out of the corpse of an old quarry with a city of factories and workshops suspended above a pit of acidic runoff, the Worker's Bastion is a combination of patchworked metal supports, thin walls, dangerous equipment, and slag. Coming from the dangerous and unstable mines, making their way through hazardous processing plants and arriving at the western ports of the Bastion, every step of material processing is met with danger and strife. Conditions in the Worker's Bastion range from dealing with constant cave ins, to getting split in half by a run away buzzsaw, or slipping into a mix of molten metals never to be seen again. The only escape from their harsh condition is being lucky enough to be loaned out to members of other Rungs as a contracted Worker, where they stay until collected and their contract terminated. Despite these conditions they work anyway, for idle hands draw the attention of the Foremen.

Tasked at keeping order and production to reasonable levels, the Noble Foremen haunt the Worker's Bastion. Looking for Workers who dare take a break, or talk with one another, the Foremen find any and all disturbances to production, and prompty put an end to them using any and all forms of psychological torture. Workers who find themselves causing large distrubances, such as trying to organize any kind of push back, will find themselves becoming a special type of Worker known as an Iron Skin. Iron Skins are very specific husk replacements to remove individuality and personality from those who dawn them. Unable to see, hear, speak, or feel, Iron Skins are tasked with simple heavy lifting tasks to take advantage of their heavy iron and steel formed husks. Typcially the route to becoming an Iron Skin is not a quick one, with Foremen instilling fear by replacing the parts of Workers slowly.

Assignments can be found here.