The Royalty of Gredo is comprised of individual Royal Offices. Holding several types of Occupations, Offices are a collection of various academics tasked with overseeing a portion of Gredo's operations. Offices like the Office of Chief will oversee war efforts, and orders to the front lines, where as the Office of Supply will oversee transportation and labor in order to keep Gredo running with the supplies it needs. These Offices have complete control over the fields they oversee, however they have several parts to keep them running smoothly. For an order to reach its proper destination it must go through the 4 types of Royals.

First is the Royal Drafters, who write long, wordy, and complicated orders and rules from scratch. Royal Drafters have the job of finding something in need of orders, such as telling a Nobility to change its focus to something new, and then writing the first wordy draft to send to the Noble Villa in order to make that change happen. Royal Drafters tend to work quickly, writing their proposals in mere hours before sending them to the second group of Royal Occupations.

Upon recieving the wordy and complicated drafts from the Royal Drafters, the Royal Editors refine the orders into a concise format, and combine orders from multiple Royal Drafters into single orders meant for the same places. These orders, now much shorter are given to the second to last Occuption.

After reading the words from the Royal Editors, it is the job of the Royal Revisors to then destroy any orders they deem unfit. Royal Revisors hold an important role in the order and law making process, being the judges of the moral standing any new order has. Should a Royal Revisor recieve an order they deem is immoral, unethical, or just plain stupid, they send it back to the Drafters who wrote the order into place. Orders sent back by Revisors have a small chance of ever being seen again, especially by the same Revisor. Should the order pass the Royal Revisors however, they then move on to the last set of hands in the Royal Office.

Royal Runners are put in charge of getting orders where they need to go. Over the course of a day, Royal Runners recieve all orders passed by Royal Revisors, which they bundle into packages for every location they must take those packages to. Royal Runners then take the full bundle of orders to the locations they need to be when the Office closes down for the day, typically around dusk. Royal Runners are tasked with delivering all packages by noon the next day, only for them to return and gain a new set for the next night.

Through this system, Royal Offices are able to properlly control their unique areas of influence. Orders tend to be written in quick succession by many Royals, with hundreds of orders leaving offices every night, controlling small things like requesting more members of a nobility, or controlling large things such as declaring the creation of a new Outpost. Royal Offices are listed below.
